# 4. Governance Protocols of Proof-of-Value

As mentioned earlier, within DAism's Proof-of-Value (PoV), there are seven major governance protocols：

* DAO Hardcore Protocol
* Decentralized Minting Protocol
* Protocol of Decentralized Autonomous Fundation
* Protocol of Valuation Token's Supply
* Protocol of Unit Token
* Protocol of Decentralized Exchange
* Protocol of Universal Payment

## **DAO's Hardcore Protocol**

* DAO's Hardcore Protocol defines the basic information for a DAO such as the Organism's ID, name in English, logo image(in SVG format, recommended file size less than 6k), description(it can be a slogan), date of establishment, team members(in ETH address, anonymous), contract address of dApp, proprietary valuation token etc.
* When setting up a DAO, the creator has the option to manually add some addresses to the DAO as its initial members. The maximum limit for addresses is 64.
* The protocol also includes rules for upgrading the DAO.

## **Decentralized Minting Protocol**

Minting is a type of interaction between contracts and is the most fundamental action between smart contracts. DAism adopts a minimalist decentralized authentication method for creating DAOs. The creation of a DAO begins with a Minting request from a smart contract at a specific contract address, and is unrelated to any other "popular" DID solutions. The Minting protocol can prove which smart contract a DAO originates from, and this smart contract can let everyone know its function or purpose. The mechanism is very simple and absolutely authentic and reliable. This is the only way to create a DAO, and it can also serve as the genesis evidence of the DAO, resolving the issue of the association between the true information about the smart contract that the intelligent entity and its issued tokens and products (such as DApps) are based on.

At the same time, there's a sub-protocol in this protocol, which is a **Smart Property Protocol**, meaning that the Minting operation announces that a specific smart contract or a dApp (a combination of certain smart contracts) has become a Public Good of Ethereum. We call a dApp as a Public Property, which is under the governance of DAism.

> SP0 v0.1
>
> Using a dApp to Mint a DAO implies that the dApp accepts the SP0 protocol as its sole protocol and acknowledges the anonymity of all its owners and managers (referred to as members of the DAO).
>
> 1. No Copyright\
>    Anonymity signifies that the dApp developed under it has dedicated entirely to the public domain, becoming a worldwide public good. Apart from enjoying rewards brought about by PoV consensus, it relinquishes all other rights, including any related and neighboring rights.
> 2. No Liability\
>    Anonymity implies that members of the DAO are not providing any form of guarantee for this dApp and its exclusive valuation token. They do not assume any joint liability.\
>    When using or calling this dApp, or investing in the DAO's exclusive valuation tokens, you should not imply endorsement by the DAO or any member of this DAO.

## Protocol of Decentralized Autonomous Fundation <a href="#protocol-of-decentralized-autonomous-fundation" id="protocol-of-decentralized-autonomous-fundation"></a>

Every DAO needs a Sustainable Decentralized Autonomous Fund (abbreviated as "SDAF"). DAism provides functions and services for such an SDAF.

* DAism's specific smart contract provides each DAO with an independent decentralized autonomous foundation it needs, which has a unique contract account.
* The funds of each DAO, including financing, fees, etc., must be managed through this decentralized autonomous foundation. For example, the token earned by any DAO product or service goes directly to the DAF's account, rather than to any personal account or other contract account (so for a good DAO, its DAF is sustainable).
* This protocol interacts with Protocol of Decentralized Exchange and Payment, and Unit Token Protocol: if a DAO has issued its circulation token and sells its products or services (the unit is vita), when customers buy the DAO's products or services they can pay whatever tokens but its DAF adheres to the protocol to ensure that it receives its own tokens. If a DAO doesn't issue its circulation token, it can only receives uToken while selling its products or services.
* The transaction fees set by the circulation token protocol and the interaction between the circulation token protocol and IADD's payment protocol are also rules of this protocol.
* Besides fund management, this procotol provides three basic utilities: a database of vote weights, a voting machine and a vote inspector. Users can extend the functions and features of these three utilities by using their own tools or third-parties' templates or dApps
* A whitelist, a blacklist or both are optional to ensure SDAF's safety and security.

## Protocol of Token's Circulating Supply**(Circulation Token Protocol, Hayek Convention No.1)** <a href="#circulation-token-protocol" id="circulation-token-protocol"></a>

Any DAO can issue its circulation token (i.e. ERC-20 token). This token is facilitated to grow its economic ecosystem and pave the way for the DAO's long term development.

This procotol defines a token's name, symbol, logo, supply, price and issurance mechanism.

The circulation token procotol is one of the key protocols of the IADD network. Every DAO that issues a circulation token should follow the rules below:

* All the supply should be sent to the IADD network. The DAO that issues its token has no reserves. This is a specially designed rule that prevents the DAO from colluding with "whales" to manipulate the market.
* A circulation token's total supply is 10,000,000,000 and the initial price is 0.01 vita
* For every transaction of a circulation token, a transaction fee (0.195%) is charged
* This procotol interacts with IADD's payment protocol. For instance, a DAO has issued its circulation token and sells its products or services in the circulation token (the unit is vita). Customers who buy the DAO's products or services can pay whatever tokens but the paid tokens will be converted by the IADD network to the circulation token and sent to the DAO's DAF address. If a DAO doesn't issue its circulation token, it can only sell its products or services in uToken.

## **Protocol of Unit Token(Hayek Convention No.2)** <a href="#unit-token-protocol" id="unit-token-protocol"></a>

The unit token(Abbreviated as uToken) is a native crypto generated by a constant product formula employed in the IADD network(a network consisting of a DEX and a DPayment system). It is used to denominate the price of every token or crypto asset such as ETH, ERC-20 tokens etc in the ecosystem.

1. The Unit Token, uToken, is the monetary unit token facilitated in DAism, while a base unit "vita" has been defined. Then an uToken is always 1 vita in the calculation of any other tokens in the markets of DAism. Like the existing units listed on International System of Units, such as mass, length etc, DAism has a monetary unit system and vita is the base unit.
2. In DAism every token is traded based on a constant product formula and is priced with a base unit "vita".
3. uToken's issurance mechnism is unique and more details will be published later.
4.  Vita is the base unit.\
    Any token or crypto asset such as ETH, ERC-20 tokens etc in circulation in DAism is priced with the base unit "vita".\
    Any payment for products or services in DAism's is priced with vita. For instance:\
    1 ISM = 0.01 vita

    The price of a product: 0.5 vita/kg

    The price for a service: 200 vita/hr

The Unit Token is specifically created for DAism. It will minimize applications' complexity and frictions. It is what a real decentralized market needs.

## **Reputation Protocol** (Optional)

This is an optional protocol. This protocol is one of the most important components of a DAO's decision-making mechanism and one of the most important protocols of a reputation system (others include circulation tokens and tokens of honor). It is also a quantitative metric that works with tokens of honor to evaluate the contribution of a member to a DAO.

Tokens of honor are used as

* PoW: member's proof of work, and
* PoS: member's proof of staking. For instance, if Alice's reputation value is twice as much as Bob's, one Alice's vote will weigh twice as much as that of one Bob's vote.

Adoption of reputation in DAOs will lead to integration of blockchain's consensus in DAOs.

For any member of a DAO his/her reputation is his/her proof of work. Therefore in a DAO a member's reputation is an incentive to the member's contribution just like mining to a miner in Bitcoin. For instance, two members A and B both belong to a DAO. If member A's contribution is twice as much as that of member B's, member A's reputation value will be twice as much as that of member B's. A member's reputation value is also the member's stake in a DAO, which means for instance, if member A's reputation value is twice as much as that of member B's, member A's voting weight will be twice as much as that of member B's.

Reputation is likely applied this way: any member with a certain reputation value can submit a proposal for any issue such as applying for financial support for a task. If this proposal is passed by qualified members, an amount of fund in the decentralized autonomous fund (abbreviated as "DAF") will be reserved for that member . However in this stage the fund is only reserved for the member. Only after the member accomplishes the task and the final result passes a audit, will the fund be sent to the member. Essentially, a DAO's fund is completely managed by collective decison-making processes rather than by a group of privileged people(most likely founders or co-founders of that DAO).

Here is how fund is granted from DAF:

Submit a proposal -> Evaluate the proposal -> Reserve fund (if the proposal passed) -> Accomplish a task -> Evaluate the result -> Send fund (if the result passes an audit)

Features of token of honor:

1 it is a non-transferrable fungible token. This prevents collusion among multiple members.

2 Each DAO has its own reputation.

3 A DAO's decentralized foundation (DF) makes rules and decisions. And these rules and decisions are coded in smart contracts and executed by smart contracts when predefined conditions are triggered. For instance, smart contracts can increase or decrease the reputation value owned by an ETH address or can blacklist an ETH address. Another instance might be that when a DAO pays its circulation tokens to an address, that address will be rewarded with a certain amount of tokens of honor as well.

4 A DAO's decentralized foundation (DF) can inherit the reputation value and rules of anther DAO's DF. For instance, if an ETH address is a member of multiple DAOs, when this address votes for a proposal in a DAO, its reputation value will be accounted as the sum of all the reputation values that it holds in all the multiple DAOs in which it is a member.

5 An ETH address can reject an increase offered to its reputation value or freeze its reputation value. The former may mean that this address is willing to offer the increase in reputation value to the reputation value of another ETH address temporarily. The latter may mean this address gives up its voting power.

## Protocol of Decentralized Exchange and Decentralized Payment <a href="#protocol-of-dex-and-payment" id="protocol-of-dex-and-payment"></a>

* For every transaction of a circulation token, a transaction fee (0.2%) is charged, while 0.195% is charged by its DAO and 0.001% is charged by DAism.
* After a circulating token(for example, ABC) of a DAO issued , when this DAO sells products or services (the price unit must be vita), the other tokens paid by the customer will be transferred to the token(ABC) issued by the DAO through the IADD network , And then paid to the DAO's decentralized autonomous foundation.&#x20;
* If there's no token issued for a DAO, it will charge uToken directly .

## **EIP-2569: A Standard for Saving Images Onchain**

Our proposed standard for saving images onchain has great significance

* In order to better implement tokens of honor, we proposed an Ethereum standard [EIP-2569(Saving and Displaying Image Onchain for Universal Tokens)](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2569)
* This standard paves the way for exploring more possibilities of saving images onchain.

## **Token of Honor Protocol**

Crediting a member with honor and Rewarding a member based on his/her credited honor is an important means to incentivize the development of a DAO. This protocol is not a core protocol of DAism but a protocol that is better adopted by dApps in DAism.

Tokens of honor can be applied in a variety of applications including:

* Issurance of medals of honor, commemorative tokens, crypto medals, crypto certificates etc.
* The cryptos based on the token of honor protocol are valuable as collectibles ---- their elements such as smart contracts, metadata, images, etc are 100 percent persistently and permenantly saved onchain.

Purposes to propose this protocol:

* to define a standard for issurance of a token of honor
* to define interfaces and attributes of a token of honor

Here are some DEMOs of trading exchanges of tokens of honor we made:

[https://1155.goh.cool/](https://1155.goh.cool/)

[https://honor.goh.cool](https://honor.goh.cool/latest)

## **Standards and Protocols for DApp Interfaces**

A DAO can be scaled and extended by creating various applications (i.e. wrapping and creating new functions and extentions, which we call "DApps") and independent Dapps.

They inclue:

* Interfaces and modules provided or developed by third-party DApps
* Protocols developed by third-party DApps
* EIP-2569: an onchain standard for saving token images on Ethereum.

## **UI Standard**

For the sake of third parties' development of modules and DApps, we will provide UI standards in the future. For sure third-party developed standards are welcome as well.
